Hey everyone and thanks for jumping back
into the cryptoverse.
Today we're going to talk about Bitcoin
and we're going to be discussing a lot
of the bottoming indicators that are
going to be worthwhile to watch over the
next few months as over the next few
months we might start to see more of
those bottom indicators flash and that
could hopefully give us the indication
that we are putting in the market cycle
bottom. If you guys like the content,
make sure you subscribe to the channel,
give the video a thumbs up, and as I
said in the last video, we did just
launch the first the inaugural ITC
conference. So, I know, you know, I
don't do a lot of in-person events. We
do a few uh we've thrown a few parties,
you know, spoken at a few conferences,
but if you are interested in going to
the first ITC conference, it will be in
Miami. uh primarily on November 21st,
though there probably will be a few
events like the night before and maybe
even the morning after. So check it out.
We're working on building out the
speaker list right now. Um so far we
have, I believe, eight speakers, but
we're we're continue to build that out.
And then you can also hear from the ITC
team if you want to hear more about what
goes on uh behind the scenes with
everything that we're doing over over
here. So make sure you guys check that
out. It should be a good time. Uh we're
just trying to bring together a lot of
like-minded people. And also the theme
of the conference will not just be
Bitcoin. Though I imagine by November a
lot of the indicators that we're about
to talk about will probably trigger by
then, at least get closer to triggering
if they haven't already. So
perhaps at the conference, one of the
main themes we'll be talking about if
we've actually started the next bull
market. Although I know right now it it
that's probably not the most the thing
that most people have on their minds,
but a lot can change in in a few months.
So, the first thing we'd like to do is
talk about just what are some good
bottoming indicators to watch. I'll tell
you my favorite one by far. And again,
it's like not even close. The one that I
think deserves, let's say, 50% of our
attention is the ROI from the low. Not
because it tells you where Bitcoin
bottoms, but because it often tells you
when Bitcoin bottoms.
This chart told you when Bitcoin topped.
So within one week, if you compare it to
the two cycles that came before it, two
cycles ago, Bitcoin topped on day 1,068
as measured from the low. Last cycle, it
topped on day 1,059 as measured from the
low. And then this cycle, it topped on
day 1,62, give or take, as measured from
the low. So the top was in one week of
prior tops. And I know it's it's dubious
to speculate.
Well, that's what we do here. What if
the next low is just one week around
when the prior lows have occurred? So,
two cycles ago, that would have
corresponded to day 1432.
And last cycle, that would occurred
around day 1424.
Now, if you think about when that would
be, if we're currently on day 1324,
that's just about 100 a little about a
100 days from now. 100 110 days from
now. That would put you kind of like
that late Q3 early Q4 time period. So,
that is when I think this in this
indicator would suggest the low will be
in at that time. Now, I couldn't tell
you based on this chart what that price
would be, although we'll get into that
in a second. I couldn't tell you what
that price would be based on this chart
alone. But what this chart does is it
tells you a time. Now, the one thing
about time is that if you get a big
capitulation at any point,
price-based capitulation can win out
over time based capitulation depending
on the type of capitulation. For
instance, we've made the comparison many
times between Bitcoin in 2019 and 2025
and how there was a top on apathy, no
rotation into altcoins, the Fed cut
three times into quantitative
tightening, Bitcoin bleeds against gold
and stocks and energy, etc., just like
it did back then. If you actually
compare this bare market to the one in
2019 and 2020, you can see what a
pricebased capitulation would look like.
So, in 2020, we were in a bare market
from the 2019 bare market. It just
happened to not line up with a 4-year
cycle. But you can see what a pricebased
capitulation did. It ended the bare
market like that. So timebased
capitulation is more important when you
think about like the year-to- date ROI
of Bitcoin in 2026 and compare that to
the average of prior midterm years.
Looking at one standard deviation to
that average, we're tracking what we
normally see. This is timebased
capitulation. But if we were to ever get
a big drop well below these averages,
then it might make sense not to remain
too bearish. Just like when we went
above the average, it made sense not to
get too bullish because we know, hey,
just because it deviates doesn't mean it
will stay like that as other cycles also
would sometimes deviate deviate outside
of prior bounce. So timebased
capitulation is where we start. We are
open-minded to price-based capitulation
if and when it happens. But until it
happens, I'm just going to keep assuming
the cycle is going to keep on doing what
it does. And one of the things to
consider with Bitcoin is that if history
plays out,
we should have one more counter trend
rally before the mark market cycle
bottom. Assuming that the rally starts
without going too much lower from here,
like we could go to the low 50s, maybe
in the high 40s. If it goes too much
below that, then the next rally could be
the actual real one. But if it's playing
out like normal cycles, you wouldn't
expect it, you know, to to bleed for too
many more weeks before getting that
final counter trend rally bounce. If you
look at last cycle, the last counter
trend rally started in June. Cycle
before that, the last counter trend
rally really started in June. Okay,
cycle before that, the last counter
trend rally start started in October.
Um, but it just gives you an idea of of
kind of what to expect here going into
the end of the year. Another thing to
watch and and this is related
to price base capitulation
volume. We don't talk about volume a ton
uh but it is important. And one of the
things you'll notice with Bitcoin is
that the bottom usually occurs when
volume is really really low for a long
time and then the volume gets this like
massive spike up. That represents
capitulation, price based capitulation.
Look at the 2018 bare market. Volume was
low and then what happened? It hit a
wall in volume. You see that big spike?
Look at 2022. Same thing. Really low
volume and then you get the big spike.
Okay. Now, we have seen some spikes. Oh,
well, as I move this, it's going to mess
up those arrows, but but you can see
that volume has remained relatively low
for this bare market. And my guess is
we're going to get a big spike and then
that will be a sign as well. So
timebased capitulation first we defer I
defer to price based capitulation if it
happens. If it doesn't happen, timebased
capitulation wins out. What are some
things that would allow us to know if
price based capitulation has happened?
What are some things? It's a great
question.
There's a lot of different indicators
you can look at. All right, the first
one we'll look at is the let's look at
the MVRV Zcore. So starting with the
mark market value, realized value Zcore.
The market has always bottomed after
this metric has gone below zero. It's
currently at 0.251. Okay,
perhaps later this year it will go below
zero. That would be one indicator to
watch.
Another indicator to watch is the
running one-year ROI,
which normally drops and forms a low
near the end of the midterm year. So, if
you see that occurring, think about it.
When would this get to its lowest point?
It would be one year after October,
assuming the the bare market is about
one year because then you're measuring a
really high peak to the the doldrums of
the bare market. Watch the running
one-year ROI.
Another one to watch and and this is a
really important one and this is the one
that really makes you think. All right.
And don't don't get don't get mad at the
messenger.
Bitcoin historically bottoms below the
realized price.
Every single bare market. Is this time
different? Maybe. But I doubt it. Right?
I you could still have a counter trend
rally and then get the final drop below
the realized price. In fact, in 2018, we
didn't even drop below the realized
price until November. In 2014, we didn't
drop below the realized price till till
uh when was it? In 2014, we didn't drop
below it until October, September,
October. So, the fact that we haven't
dropped below it again or yet doesn't
mean it won't happen. It just means it's
actually playing out like prior cycles.
Last cycle, we dropped below the
realized price in June. So, we're in
that window where it's likely going to
happen. And notice that the realized
price is down at around 53K. So it seems
likely that at some point Bitcoin would
go below the realized price and below
the realized price. When you look at the
price divided by the realized price, you
can see that it bottoms below that
level. And so it is likely going to
we'll likely see this indicator trigger
as well. Now here is an indicator.
Take a deep breath. Okay. Here is an
indicator that would indicate to me
price base capitulation. Okay. going
below the realized price would would
still like we could go below it but just
because we go below it doesn't mean we
immediately get back above it right like
we went below it in October 2014 and
then went lower in January 2015 we went
below it in you know November 2018 and
then stayed below it for four or five
months what would indicate full-blown
price base capitulation
ignore the ignore the timebased view I
would say if we go to the balance price.
Bitcoin historically doesn't spend very
much time below the balance price. Just
a a few days. You can see in 2011,
you can see in 2015,
you can see in 2018,
and you can see that in 2022.
And right now, that's all the way down
in the 30 to 40k range. It's currently
at around 38K. I don't know if we're
going to go there. Get off my back. I'm
not promising that that has to happen,
but it is something to say, look, if it
does happen, that would be price-based
capitulation. At that point,
who cares when it happens? If it happens
in June, it happens in June. If it
happens in July or August or September,
October, November, December, it doesn't
matter. Is when it happens, that's the
opportunity. If and when it arises, that
would be another indicator to watch. to
go to that level would make it a lot
easier for a lot of people to say the
bare market is over because then all the
onchain indicators will be fully reset.
If you look at the onchain risk which
includes the peel multiple, the MVRV
score, the MVRVZ score, transaction
fees, uh terminal price, minor cap to
thermocap, market cap to thermocap
thermocap. When you include all that,
you can also include the R huddle ratio
and the supply and profit and loss if
you want. Let's add that stuff in there.
Look at where the lows occur down near
about that 0.1 risk level. We're
currently at 0 2 just below 02.1 95. So
you can see what's kind of left for the
bare market. You can see it. So these
are indicators that I will certainly be
watching. Um I think it makes a lot of
sense to have a strategy in the back
half of the year to not say that you
have to time the bottom exactly because
the truth is is no one fully can.
Usually what I do is I wait until the
second half of midterm years and then I
start getting into Bitcoin in the second
half of the year and I ignore it for the
first half. So far, that's worked out
very well, right? Like, it's June 25th.
We're nearly to July, and Bitcoin's
putting in new lows. Now, I don't know
how much lower it's going to go before
the next rally. I will say in 2018,
which we've made some comparisons to,
the June low was at around 5700 and we
just went to 58,000. So, we're we're
probably getting kind of close, but it
doesn't mean it couldn't go lower before
getting that bounce. But in terms of
time, a lot of times Bitcoin will get
that bounce sometime in like mid to late
July is is where you'll often find
Bitcoin getting that relief. Mid mid
late July, sometimes going into August.
Early July can still be sometimes weak.
Okay, early July could still be
sometimes weak. And and I want to sort
of address something. When we talk about
lows and when they occur, it it's not an
exact science. It normally is in
February and then the next one usually
occurs in like April.
The last one we had, the next the higher
low was actually in late March. It was
off by like two days. So if if the if
the low ends up being a few days later
or a few days earlier, it's not an exact
science, right? We're just saying this
is around the time that it should occur.
It's the end of the post having year is
the first one about a month after the
top. The next one is February. The next
one is like late March, early April,
often a higher low, sometimes a lower
low. The next one is June. Could it go
into early July? It's possible. And then
the next one after that's usually
October. That is how it it plays out.
And and I think that's what we have to
watch. Now, do we need a catalyst for
it? I mean, I would argue you don't
really need one. It's just a four year
cycle playing out. But there's really
not really there's not there's not
really a shortage of catalyst right now.
I mean, I'm not going to go into all the
details, but there's plenty of plenty of
things that could theoretically happen,
you know, that that people are going to
assign the narrative for why this price
action has to play out. But these are
all indicators to watch in the coming
months and we we'll cover them here.
Obviously, we'll probably spend a lot of
time talking about them at at the
conference and and maybe talking about
what are some of the bull indicators
that might indicate, hey, like we're at
the beginning stages of a bull market.
There's a reason the conference is in
November is because I wanted to do it,
you know, around the time of the low.
And I hope the low occurs before
November, but that was the reason was,
hey, let's try to do it around the time
of the low. Um that way perhaps we can,
you know, we can actually be a little
bit more optimistic uh about where we're
going rather than doing it at the end of
last year when, you know, I was
unfortunately bearish on on the market
and and not super excited about what the
midterm year held. But the nice thing
about midterm years is they do lead to
plenty of opportunities for those who
are willing uh to to be patient. If you
look at the ROI of Bitcoin from the
peak, this is another timebased
indicator. You can see that the last
couple of cycles, uh, a few cycles ago,
it ended on day 406.
Another cycle was 365. Another cycle was
364. We're currently on day 262.
So that would indicate you might have,
you know, a little bit longer uh before
and that that would see that would align
with price space capitulation view. So,
let's see where things go. Again, the
general path is a low to form in the
early part of the summer, a bounce at
some point kind of into the late summer,
and then the final drop into Q4 to mark
the market cycle bottom. I think there's
going to be a lot of indicators that
we're going to be able to look at later
this year that are going to say, hey,
look, based on the historical standard,
this would be a fairly attractive level.
Now, is there going to be fear and FUD
at the time? Absolutely, there probably
would be. But the four-year cycle didn't
fail at the top. Maybe it won't fail at
the bottom. And that's why I think the
biggest critics of the four-year cycle
will become the biggest cheerleaders of
the four-year cycle in just a few
months. So, those are my views. Those
are some of the indicators that I am
watching. There's obviously more and
we'll talk about more, but I just wanted
to keep this video a little bit shorter,
show you a few few of the indicators I
was watching to try to time out like
when could it happen, at what price
could it happen, what is the path to get
there. If you guys want to talk about
this stuff in person with other people
and meet people in the space, again,
check out the ITC conference. We're
going to have a lot of fun there. We're
going to have a party. If you haven't
been to one of the ITC parties before,
they're pretty fun. Uh, so make sure you
guys check that out and um, we'll go
ahead and wrap that up. Links in the
description below to the conference. Uh,
we also have ITC Premium if you want to
join that as well. That sale is still
going on. I'll see you guys next time.
Bye.